---
layout: post
title:  "A Developing Dementia Screening Method: ACE-R"
date:   2022-12-27 13:20:40 +0900
categories: development
---

## What is ACE?
Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination (ACE) and its subsequent modified versions are psychological tests used to identify cognitive impairment. The ACE was initially developed as an extension of the [Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE)](https://www.healthdirect.gov.au/mini-mental-state-examination-mmse) but over time has been further refined into ACE-R and ACE-III. 

---

## What is ACE-R?

ACE-R, short for Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination-Revised, is the first modified version of the ACE. It is used mainly to differentiate subtypes of dementia like Alzheimer's disease, supranuclear palsy, and other diseases invovlved in parkinsonism.

---

## What does ACE-R assess? 

[ACE-R](https://advancemed.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2019/01/ace-r_aus_versiona1.pdf) evaluates 6 cognitive areas:
**1. Orientation:** Ability to describe the weather and their current location 
**2. Attention:** Ability to spell basic words and carry out simple mathematical subtraction exercises
**3. Memory:** Ability to remember words and information
**4. Verbal fluency:** Ability to name words and animals beginning with a given letter
**5. Language:** Ability to understand written instructions, construct sentences, and read aloud
**6. Visuospatial ability:** Ability to view an object as a set of smaller parts and then construct a replica using those smaller parts 

---
## How is test scored?

ACE-R is scored out of 100 total points, with a higher mark indicating better cognitive function. As compared to other common dementia screening tests which are marked out of around 30 total marks, ACE-R's 100-point scale shows that it is much more comprehensive. 

